# SteamForwarder
steam_api.dll implementation for wine. Your windows games now can interact with your linux steam!

# ! DISCLAIMER !
**The author is not liable for any damage resulting from the use of this software. User might break his games, steam, OS or even computer. User account might to be banned by Valve. EVERYTHING THAT YOU'RE DOING, YOU'RE DOING ON YOUR OWN RISK!**

## Restrictions
There are a few known problems with this tool. Some of them will be solved in future, others are not solvable.

SteamForwarder is NOT able to run by design:

* DRM-protected games

SteamForwarder is NOT able to download:

* Everything that steamcmd are not able to download (mostly paid games with protection)

SteamForwarder may encounter problems with any games, except ones built with latest steam api. (The version on Releases page is not built againist latest steam api, it includes api for one of wide spread versions). The **Hard way** might solve the problem but not in all cases. In most complicated case the steam api headers for particular version are required. For pre-2014 steam api it's recomended to use [SteamBrige](https://github.com/sirnuke/steambridge)

## Usage dependencies
* steamcmd
* python3
* wine

## Usage

This is a common usage scenario of SteamForwarder for users.
Some hints for experts can be found in the section below.

* Download redist.tar.bz2 from latest release of SteamForwarder from releases page
* Unpack it to the folder you want
* Open the terminal in the folder SteamForwarder was unpacked
* Type `python3 app_install.py --help` to learn command line options of installer tool.
* Use app\_install.py to install your windows game. E.g. for Paladins it command will be `python3 app_install.py 444090`. The steam appid of the game can be found in the url of the game page on the steam store site.
* Launch your linux **steam** (don't allow it to update your windows games if they support MacOS either)
* Run installed game via runscript generated. (Its location will be printed after app\_install.py will install the game.)

## Found a bug?
Feel free to post the issue. Don't forget to attach the wine log with `WINEDEBUG=trace+steam_api` environment variable set.
If you're starting the game from the runscript generated by the **app_install.py** the required log can be found in the
runscript folder (it's named **lastrun.log**).

## Compilation dependencies
General:
* Wine headers with winegcc

Fedora:
* glibc-devel.i686
* wine-devel.i686

Arch:
* wine

## Compilation
1. Obtain the latest steam api headers [somewhere](https://partner.steamgames.com/home) and put them into the **steam** folder. (They cannot be included into this repo due to licensing issues.)
2. Obtain libsteam_api.so from any of your linux games or from the sdk obtained in p.1, then put it to the repo root.
3. Open the terminal in the repo root and type `make`.
4. If something went wrong - go to the **Hard way** section.
5. When compilation is completed you will see **steam_api.dll.so** in the repo root.

## Usage (for experts)
1. Put your **libsteam_api.so** into a directory on LD_LIBRARY_PATH.
2. Put created **steam_api.dll.so** into a directory on WINEDLLPATH.
3. Once per WINEPREFIX set "*steam_api" as builtin via winecfg
4. Run the **steam**
5. Run your windows game through the wine.

## Hard way
1. Install the [Nim compiler](https://nim-lang.org/download.html) of version 0.15+ (it can probably be found in your distro repo). PS: Yes, I know, that code generator could be implemented in some popular language like python, but I wanted to write it in Nim just because I like this language and want to make it popular =P
2. Put **steam_api.dll** from your game into repo root.
3. (optional) Obtain steam api headers for your game steam_api.dll if possible.
4. Regenerate code by `make generate-code`.
5. Compile SteamForwarder using `make` command.
